Overview

I recently started playing soccer with a group of people I met online through a platform that caters to finding and building community events. However, the main page of this app is cluttered with content that makes the user experience a chore. I simply wanted to find an event without sifting through extraneous information. This problem was the inspiration to design my own platform to simplify the process. 

My web application offers a solution to the user experience without the redudant content surrounding it. Specifically, my web application allows users to create or attend sports events they're interested in. 

Distinctiveness and Complexity

 I believe my project is sufficiently distinct from the other projects in this course and more complex for the following reasons: 
 
 - My project features the concept of real time events. Whereby if an event reaches the end of its duration it becomes no longer active. 
 - The intent is to bring people together in person to play sports. 
 - Features Django's authentication view for resetting users' passwords. 
 - Integrates Yahoo's SMTP server to send mail. 
 - Integrates Google Maps JavaScript API for the autocomplete of places feature. 
 - Introduces the use of Django widgets to handle html input validation.
   
My project was built using Django with 2 models on the back-end and JavaScript in the front-end for updating and displaying content.  

My application is also mobile responsive. Each page sizes its elements to fit the width of a mobile device. 

Files and Directories

- capstone: main project directory.
    - .env: contains my local environment variables.
    - .gitignore: contains all specified files Git should ignore.
    - settings.py: generated by Django; contains configuration for custom timezone, email settings and credentials from .env file, and where media is to be saved.
    - urls.py: contains the project urls and settings for media. 
    - fourenv: name of virtual environment
- media/images: folder where media images are stored.
- sports: name of application directory.
    - static/registration: contains css file for registration template. 
    - static/sports: contains javascript and css file for sports template.
        - scripts.js: contains the script for the application. 
            1. Grabs all current or future events and displays them.
            2. Grabs all past events and displays them.
            3. Grabs a single event and displays it. 
            4. Closes single event view.
            5. Updates attend or unattend option for a normal user. Cancels a current event or deletes a past event for the superuser.
            6. Accesses the Google API for autocomplete of places.
            7. Checks for valid input of Google API.
            8. Csrf token to cancel or delete event.
        - styles.css: contains CSS for sports template.
    - templates/registration: contains templates for registration directory.
        - base.html: layout template.
        - password_reset_complete.html: template for reset password success.
        - password_reset_confirm.html: template for confirming reset password.
        - password_reset_done.html: template for sending password reset instructions.
        - password_reset_email.txt: plain text file for password reset link.
        - password_reset_form.html: template for password reset form.
    - templates/sports: contains templates for sports directory. 
        - create_event.html: template form for creating an event.
        - index.html: template for displaying the homepage, all current and past events, single event display, and navigation bar.
        - layout.html: base template for sports templates.
        - login.html: login page template.
        - register.html: template for registration page.
    - admin.py: registers Django models to be used in the application.
    - models.py: contains the Models or tables that are to be used with the SQLite database.
    - urls.py: contains the application's urls.
    - views.py: contains all the views of the application and the form for the Event model.
- db.sqlite3: Django's default database. 

Models

Two models were used for this application:
1. User - an extension of Django's AbstractUser class model. 
2. Events - stores all the informaton regarding an event. Has a many to many relationship and foreign relationship with User. 

How to run application:

1. Install Python if not already done so.
2. Create a virtual environment inside project directory.
    - Install Django.
3. Run command:
    - python manage.py runserver


